README.md, before:

# Sufficiently Advanced XML Eventing Editor

Your user-friendly SAX wrapper to transform XML files easily, with memory consumption in mind.

## Spirit

Saxeed, a SAX wrapper, stream process XML input performing modifications to its outputs based on predefined transformation(s).

It accepts the constraints of "streaming" (or "eventing") approach — elements are visited one-by-one with no option to move around the stream.
This is a tradeoff we accept in return for predictable memory footprint.

The very nature of stream-based processing restricts the data that are available in every moment, and modifications that are permitted.
To accommodate that, developer needs to accept a paradigm shift compared to, say, dom4j.

Saxeed strives to add as much convenience on top of plain old SAX, while adding as little of an overhead.

### Capabilities

Each tag visitor have access to / can modify the following: 

|                                    | Tag Start              | Tag End                |
|------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Access Tag attributes              | ☑                      | ☑                      |
| Access Parent(s) Tag attributes    | ☑                      | ☑                      |
| Add Child Tags                     | ☑                      | ☑ (before closing tag) |
| Add Sibling Tags (NOT IMPLEMENTED) | ☑ (before and after)   | ☑ (only after)         |
| Add Parent Tag (`wrapWith()`)      | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Change Attributes                  | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Tag (`unwrap()`)            | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Tag Recursively (`skip()`)  | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Child Tags (`empty()`)           | ☑                      | ☐                      |

More complex changes can be implemented by subscribing visitors to multiple tags, and retaining information between their visits.  

## Usage

- [Basic Concepts](./docs/BASICS.md)
- [Implementing Visitors](./docs/VISITORS.md)

### Dependency

To consume the library in maven:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.olivergondza</groupId>
    <artifactId>saxeed</artifactId>
    <version>...</version>
</dependency>
```

## Maintenance

### Contributing

Saxeed is an Open Source library, and we welcome contribution. File your Issue or an MR now!

### Releasing

The library is released to maven central.

To produce a new release, update version in pom.xml and run `mvn deploy`.
Note this is used for both releases and snapshots.

Commit message:

feat(pom): Control version through maven-git-versioning-extension

README.md, after:

# Sufficiently Advanced XML Eventing Editor

Your user-friendly SAX wrapper to transform XML files easily, with memory consumption in mind.

## Spirit

Saxeed, a SAX wrapper, stream process XML input performing modifications to its outputs based on predefined transformation(s).

It accepts the constraints of "streaming" (or "eventing") approach — elements are visited one-by-one with no option to move around the stream.
This is a tradeoff we accept in return for predictable memory footprint.

The very nature of stream-based processing restricts the data that are available in every moment, and modifications that are permitted.
To accommodate that, developer needs to accept a paradigm shift compared to, say, dom4j.

Saxeed strives to add as much convenience on top of plain old SAX, while adding as little of an overhead.

### Capabilities

Each tag visitor have access to / can modify the following: 

|                                    | Tag Start              | Tag End                |
|------------------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|
| Access Tag attributes              | ☑                      | ☑                      |
| Access Parent(s) Tag attributes    | ☑                      | ☑                      |
| Add Child Tags                     | ☑                      | ☑ (before closing tag) |
| Add Sibling Tags (NOT IMPLEMENTED) | ☑ (before and after)   | ☑ (only after)         |
| Add Parent Tag (`wrapWith()`)      | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Change Attributes                  | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Tag (`unwrap()`)            | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Tag Recursively (`skip()`)  | ☑                      | ☐                      |
| Delete Child Tags (`empty()`)           | ☑                      | ☐                      |

More complex changes can be implemented by subscribing visitors to multiple tags, and retaining information between their visits.  

## Usage

- [Basic Concepts](./docs/BASICS.md)
- [Implementing Visitors](./docs/VISITORS.md)

### Dependency

To consume the library in maven:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.github.olivergondza</groupId>
    <artifactId>saxeed</artifactId>
    <version>...</version>
</dependency>
```

## Maintenance

### Contributing

Saxeed is an Open Source library, and we welcome contribution. File your Issue or an MR now!

### Releasing

The library is released to maven central.

To produce a new release, run ` git tag X.Y.Z` and then `mvn deploy`.

To deploy `-SNAPSHOT`, run `mvn deploy` on a commit without tag.
